livres :
Hilbert - Pierre Cassou-Noguès - Figures du savoir - LES BELLES LETTRES - 2004
Turing - Jean Lassègue - figures du savoir - LES BELLES LETTRES - 2003

internet :
David Hilbert - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Hilbert

David Hilbert — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Hilbert

Hilbert, Gödel, and Turing
http://www.philocomp.net/home/hilbert.htm

Biographie de David Hilbert
http://www.bibmath.net/bios/index.php?action=affiche&quoi=hilbert

Hilbert's Program (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)
http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/hilbert-program/#1.4

Problèmes de Hilbert — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probl%C3%A8mes_de_Hilbert#Articles_connexes

Hilbert's problems - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hilbert%27s_problems

Hilbert's second problem - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hilbert%27s_second_problem

Kurt Gödel - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurt_G%C3%B6del

Kurt Gödel — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurt_G%C3%B6del#Travaux_.C3.A0_Princeton

Gödel's incompleteness theorems - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6del%27s_incompleteness_theorems

Le théorème d’incomplétude de Gödel | Science étonnante
https://sciencetonnante.wordpress.com/2013/01/14/le-theoreme-de-godel/

Königsberg — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/K%C3%B6nigsberg#Quelques_personnalit.C3.A9s

Hermann Minkowski — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hermann_Minkowski

Adolf Hurwitz — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adolf_Hurwitz

Felix Klein — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felix_Klein

Henri Poincaré — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_Poincar%C3%A9

Leopold Kronecker — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leopold_Kronecker

Hermann Minkowski - Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hermann_Minkowski

Bernhard Rust — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bernhard_Rust

Paul Albert Gordan — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Albert_Gordan

Hermann Weyl — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hermann_Weyl

Emmy Noether — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emmy_Noether#Universit.C3.A9_de_G.C3.B6ttingen

Paradoxe de Richard — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paradoxe_de_Richard

Cesare Burali-Forti — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cesare_Burali-Forti

Ernst Zermelo — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ernst_Zermelo

Jules Richard (mathématicien) — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jules_Richard_(math%C3%A9maticien)

Luitzen Egbertus Jan Brouwer — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luitzen_Egbertus_Jan_Brouwer

Paul Bernays — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Bernays

Gerhard Gentzen — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gerhard_Gentzen

John von Neumann — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_von_Neumann

Wilhelm Ackermann — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wilhelm_Ackermann

De l'arithmétique à l'algèbre
http://mathematiques.ac-bordeaux.fr/pedaclg/dosped/calc_lit/arithm_alg.htm

Science sous le Troisième Reich — Wikipédia
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Science_sous_le_Troisi%C3%A8me_Reich#cite_ref-4

Hilbert-Courant - Constance Reid - Google Livres
https://books.google.fr/books?id=pPNirfJL86MC&lpg=PP1&hl=fr&pg=PP1#v=onepage&q&f=false
